Add docs for audio processing (#3222)
huggingface/datasets: docs/source/audio_process.rst

Process audio data
==================

🤗 Datasets supports an :class:`datasets.Audio` feature, enabling users to load and process raw audio files for training. This guide will show you how to:

* Load your own custom audio dataset.
* Resample audio files.
* Use :func:`datasets.Dataset.map` with audio files.

Installation
------------

The :class:`datasets.Audio` feature is an experimental feature and should be installed as an extra dependency in 🤗 Datasets. Install the :class:`datasets.Audio` feature with pip:

.. code::

    >>> pip install datasets[audio]

Users should also install `torchaudio <https://pytorch.org/audio/stable/index.html>`_ and `librosa <https://librosa.org/doc/latest/index.html>`_, two common libraries used by 🤗 Datasets for handling audio data.

.. code::

    >>> pip install librosa
    >>> pip install torchaudio

.. important::

>     torchaudio's ``sox_io`` `backend <https://pytorch.org/audio/stable/backend.html#>`_ supports decoding ``mp3`` files. Unfortunately, the ``sox_io`` backend is only available on Linux/macOS, and is unsupported by Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    torchaudio's ``sox_io`` `backend <https://pytorch.org/audio/stable/backend.html#>`_ supports decoding ``mp3`` files. Unfortunately, the ``sox_io`` backend is only available on Linux/macOS, and is not supported by Windows.
```

Then you can load an audio dataset the same way you would load a text dataset. For example, load the `Common Voice <https://huggingface.co/datasets/common_voice>`_ dataset with the Turkish configuration:

.. code-block::

    >>> from datasets import load_dataset, load_metric, Audio
    >>> common_voice = load_dataset("common_voice", "tr", split="train")

Audio datasets
--------------

> Audio datasets commonly have an ``audio`` and ``path`` column.

Reviewer: Some important datasets like librispeech I have "audio" and "file" columns
```suggestion
Audio datasets commonly have an ``audio`` and ``path`` or ``file`` column.
```

``audio`` is the actual audio file that is loaded and resampled on-the-fly upon calling it.

.. code::

    >>> common_voice[0]["audio"]
    {'array': array([ 0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00, ...,
        -8.8930130e-05, -3.8027763e-05, -2.9146671e-05], dtype=float32),
    'path': '/root/.cache/huggingface/datasets/downloads/extracted/05be0c29807a73c9b099873d2f5975dae6d05e9f7d577458a2466ecb9a2b0c6b/cv-corpus-6.1-2020-12-11/tr/clips/common_voice_tr_21921195.mp3',
    'sampling_rate': 48000}

When you access an audio file, it is automatically decoded and resampled. Generally, you should query an audio file like: ``common_voice[0]["audio"]``. If you query an audio file with ``common_voice["audio"][0]`` instead, **all** the audio files in your dataset will be decoded and resampled. This process can take a long time if you have a large dataset.

> ``path`` is an absolute path to an audio file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``path`` or ``file`` is an absolute path to an audio file.
```

Resample
--------

Some models expect the audio data to have a certain sampling rate due to how the model was pretrained. For example, the `XLSR-Wav2Vec2 <https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-large-xlsr-53>`_ model expects the input to have a sampling rate of 16kHz, but an audio file from the Common Voice dataset has a sampling rate of 48kHz. You can use :meth:`datasets.Dataset.cast_column` to downsample the sampling rate to 16kHz:

.. code::

    >>> common_voice = common_voice.cast_column("audio", Audio(sampling_rate=16_000))

The next time you load the audio file, the :class:`datasets.Audio` feature will load and resample it to 16kHz:

    >>> common_voice_train[0]["audio"]
    {'array': array([ 0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00, ...,
        -7.4556941e-05, -1.4621433e-05, -5.7861507e-05], dtype=float32),
    'path': '/root/.cache/huggingface/datasets/downloads/extracted/05be0c29807a73c9b099873d2f5975dae6d05e9f7d577458a2466ecb9a2b0c6b/cv-corpus-6.1-2020-12-11/tr/clips/common_voice_tr_21921195.mp3',
    'sampling_rate': 16000}

.. image:: /imgs/resample.gif
   :align: center

``Map``
-------

> Just like text datasets, you can apply a preprocessing function over an entire dataset with :func:`datasets.Dataset.map`, which is useful for preprocessing all of your audio data at once. Create a convenient ``processor`` object that contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like text datasets, you can apply a preprocessing function over an entire dataset with :func:`datasets.Dataset.map`, which is useful for preprocessing all of your audio data at once.
For a [speech recognition model of your choice](https://huggingface.co/models?pipeline_tag=automatic-speech-recognition&sort=downloads), *e.g.* `"facebook/wav2vec2-large-xlsr-53"`, you can load a ``processor`` object that contains:
```

    >>> common_voice = load_dataset("common_voice", "tr", split="train")

Audio datasets
--------------

Audio datasets commonly have a ``path`` and ``audio`` column.

``path`` is an absolute path to an audio file.

.. code::

    >>> common_voice[0]["path"]
    /root/.cache/huggingface/datasets/downloads/extracted/05be0c29807a73c9b099873d2f5975dae6d05e9f7d577458a2466ecb9a2b0c6b/cv-corpus-6.1-2020-12-11/tr/clips/common_voice_tr_21921195.mp3

The ``path`` is useful if you want to load your own audio dataset. In this case, provide a column of audio file paths to :meth:`datasets.Dataset.cast_column`:

.. code::

    >>> my_audio_dataset = my_audio_dataset.cast_column("paths_to_my_audio_files", Audio())

``audio`` is the actual audio file that is loaded and resampled on-the-fly upon calling it.

.. code::

    >>> common_voice[0]["audio"]
    {'array': array([ 0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00, ...,
        -8.8930130e-05, -3.8027763e-05, -2.9146671e-05], dtype=float32),
    'path': '/root/.cache/huggingface/datasets/downloads/extracted/05be0c29807a73c9b099873d2f5975dae6d05e9f7d577458a2466ecb9a2b0c6b/cv-corpus-6.1-2020-12-11/tr/clips/common_voice_tr_21921195.mp3',

>     'sampling_rate': 48000}

Reviewer 2: I would first mention the "audio" column, and then the "path" column. Indeed the "path" column isn't going to be used most of the time, whereas "audio" really is the column that contain the relevant data

Resample
--------

Some models expect the audio data to have a certain sampling rate due to how the model was pretrained. For example, the `XLSR-Wav2Vec2 <https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-large-xlsr-53>`_ model expects the input to have a sampling rate of 16kHz, but a Common Voice audio file has a sampling rate of 48kHz. Use :meth:`datasets.Dataset.cast_column` to downsample the sampling rate to 16kHz:

.. code::

    >>> common_voice = common_voice.cast_column("audio", Audio(sampling_rate=16_000))

The next time you load the audio file, the :class:`datasets.Audio` feature will load and resample it to 16kHz:

    >>> common_voice_train[0]["audio"]
    {'array': array([ 0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00,  0.0000000e+00, ...,
        -7.4556941e-05, -1.4621433e-05, -5.7861507e-05], dtype=float32),
    'path': '/root/.cache/huggingface/datasets/downloads/extracted/05be0c29807a73c9b099873d2f5975dae6d05e9f7d577458a2466ecb9a2b0c6b/cv-corpus-6.1-2020-12-11/tr/clips/common_voice_tr_21921195.mp3',
    'sampling_rate': 16000}

.. image:: /imgs/resample.gif

>    :align: center

Reviewer 2: O_O

Author: Changed gif slightly to make it more clear that the resampling happens after `ds[0]["audio"]`. Let me know which one you prefer, or if there is anything else I can add! :)

Reviewer 2: I liked the symmetry of the first one, and having everything on one level makes it look clear that it's transforming the data like a pipeline. Maybe if you have both waves at the same level as `ds[0]["audio"]` it's clearer that the transformation is done at this step ?

Author: Good idea!

Just like text datasets, you can apply a preprocessing function over an entire dataset with :func:`datasets.Dataset.map`, which is useful for resampling all of your audio data at once. Just make sure to include the ``audio`` key when you call :func:`datasets.Dataset.map` so that you are actually resampling the audio data:

.. code-block::

    >>> def prepare_dataset(batch):
    ...     audio = batch["audio"]

>     ...     batch["input_values"] = processor(audio["array"], sampling_rate=audio["sampling_rate"]).input_values[0]

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a line to explain how the processor is created ?
